Speaker A: I know how flies land on honey. I know death that prowls around, destroying everything. I know the books of truths and rumors. I know everything. But not yourself. Jean Slavien. This film invites you to look at yourself from the outside. And then, seeing yourself in others, you may think about it. What do we know about ourselves? About your psychology? How independent are we in our judgments? and how other people influence us.
Speaker B: POSITIVE MUSIC.
Speaker C: Very often, when a young lawyer begins the judicial, prosecutorial or advocacy work, a lot of serious mistakes occur, sometimes incidents related to the fact that too much testimony is conveyed and, even I will say differently, an uncritical attitude towards them is manifested. And testimony is the testimony of living people, testimony that is given, although in equal conditions, as sometimes happens when people see the same thing, however, when giving testimony, they give completely different explanations of what is happening and completely different interpretations of what they saw data. This happens because, in general, it turns out that people in general, let’s say, in consolation of this circumstance, people generally tend to make mistakes. I think that now is the time to check, How strong is human memory? And what are the properties of this memory? And to what extent is the memory of each of you prone to deviations? So, the number of attackers.
Speaker B: Five people. I believe there were six people. Three machine gunners and three of you kidnapped. It seemed to me that there were seven of them. Three machine gunners and one had a pistol.
Speaker C: How did I disappear from the scene?
Speaker B: I didn't notice. Probably all that came out. In general, it was very unexpected, but it seems to me that two people threw a bag over you, and then you disappeared immediately.
Speaker C: How? I evaporated.
Speaker B: No, no, you didn't disappear. I left. You've gone.
Speaker C: I left. I think three of you were grabbed and carried away. They also threw a bag over your head and carried away.
Speaker B: And they took you away. They pushed you along.
Speaker A: There is one fact, but many opinions. Why?
Speaker B: Three of you were carried away.
Speaker C: There were five or four of them, I don't remember exactly, but I know that two were with machine guns, they stood here and shot. One of them was wearing a black hat and a red dress. So, let's not rush. There were two with machine guns, you say? Yes, and they stood and shot. They stood and shot. What did the others do and how many of them were there not with machine guns? The others ran up to you. There were two or three of them, I don’t remember exactly, unfortunately. How did you think this happened?
Speaker B: I don't even know.
Speaker C: You don't even know?
Speaker B: I hadn't thought about that.
Speaker C: Could you identify?
Speaker B: Well, if they were dressed the same way, maybe.
Speaker C: So, in terms of clothes?
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker C: But there were also faces.
Speaker B: I didn’t remember their faces because they had masks.
Speaker C: What hats do you remember?
Speaker A: Everything happened almost instantly. Surprise, shots, emotional shock. Impressions are mixed up. Much was immediately forgotten. Speculation and imagination made up for the lack of information.
Speaker C: Could you do anything to fill in the picture that your subordinates painted? Yes, I can do it a little. Please. First of all, I was prepared for the fact that our professor would be safe and sound, unharmed. It's clear. Aren't you very scared? Yes, I wasn't very scared. This is what you should have seen clearly. The second thing I remember is that you didn’t resist very much. A person who is taken away very violently is more resistant. The third thing I remember is that first one person jumped up to you, Then they jumped out... No, first people jumped out, then a man jumped out behind them and did something to you, something like grabbed you by the mouth, something like that sort of, and came up from behind. Something's behind you, right? Yes. And how many were... Behind, does that mean he was alone? No, then another one ran up. And what did they do to me? Then they tried... Well, I didn't see what they were doing at all, I didn't pay attention, but I saw that they made some effort, but not very much. Not very... Because of what? To carry me away? Or fire him? Yes, generally take away, to remove from here. So, did they take me away, pushing me from behind? Or were they dragging me by the hand? How did I disappear from the scene? How did you disappear? In my opinion, another machine gunner who was shooting closest here also helped them. Helped them, right? Yes. He pushed me, perhaps? Yes, it seems. It seems he was pushing. They didn't seem to pick you up. I think I'm pushing you, but the answers are wrong. Don't you think? No. Are you convinced of what you say? Yes, but I didn’t really notice, didn’t really pay attention to how you carried the professor. It's clear.
Speaker A: Check your impressions too. That's how it was.
Speaker B: I remember one.
Speaker C: Remember one?
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker C: Write it down.
Speaker B: I don't know, I didn't look at the clothes. I didn’t look at what he was wearing or what shoes he was wearing. But somehow I looked at the face, although it was closed. Well, such a thin face, very thin. He was tall. And the bandage came off a little like that, and I remembered the facial features.
Speaker C: Do you remember the facial features?
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker C: Could you identify this person?
Speaker B: I could.
Speaker C: How? Have you ever seen him before or later?
Speaker B: I saw him later.
Speaker C: Where?
Speaker B: He stood on stage in a police uniform.
Speaker C: In police uniform? Is this person here? Please invite me here. Here we were guarded by a senior sergeant. Senior Sergeant, please come here. If you don't mind, stand here, right here. This?
Speaker B: This one. Exactly, exactly.
Speaker C: Exactly?
Speaker B: Exactly.
Speaker C: I see.
Speaker B: Well, okay.
Speaker C: He's not guilty of the kidnapping. Is it my fault that he allowed me to be kidnapped? He was supposed to protect me. Do you think it's him?
Speaker B: Yes, I think so.
Speaker C: You weren't in this room? Did not have. Do you have a witness who can confirm this?
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker C: Where is he? He's sitting there. Come here please. Another sergeant. Come on, stand up, please. Do you confirm that your friend was not at the shoot? Yes confirm. When did you go to shoot? Eight, beginning of the ninth. Already after this shooting. How do you know there was a shooting? The guys in our family have already told us about it. Did this convince you?
Speaker B: No. I don't care.
Speaker C: You don't believe me that he didn't kidnap me?
Speaker B: No, I don't believe it.
Speaker A: Our perception, our personal experience often fails us. We understand this. And therefore, almost always, without noticing it, we compare our perception, our opinion and even our behavior with the perception, opinion and behavior of others around us. Let's check. True, unconsciously. Other people are our source of information.
Speaker B: If you would like to please stand up and come here. Quickly, guys. Please be sorry. We need 20 people for the first experiment. Quickly, quickly. You will be taken to the testing room. Here's the door, please. How many volunteers do we have? Let's start the experiment. Please invite the first test subject. Come here. Please look at this photo. Before you is a portrait of a very dangerous criminal. Your task is to look at this photograph and give a psychological description of this person. Please. Well, characterization from what point of view in general? From a human point of view. What kind of person is this? It seems to me that this is a cunning man. So. Closed, hidden like that. So. And what is his cunning and cunning? Does anyone's facial features reveal this feature? Eyes. Especially in his eyes they say about him that he is like that. Sneaky, yes. Sneaky, sneaky, cunning, crafty you might even say. You see, this person somehow, in my opinion, looks very gloomily at the world around him. In my opinion, he is characterized by some kind of discontent, contempt for people. Does he have a cold face?
Speaker C: Yes, it's nice.
Speaker B: But what betrays the criminal element in him, in his face?
Speaker C: Eyes.
Speaker B: Eyes? Yes. What's in them, in those eyes? Cold. Cold. Well, I would say that this is a very angry person, a person who is difficult to rely on. Then you can see that he is very experienced. This, I would say, well, in addition to the fact that he has scars on his face, his nose is broken, and the face itself is already, as it were, sculpted. Over the years, certain features have emerged in his face, exposing the cruelty and inflexibility of this man. He has a very prominent chin, as is usually the case with strong-willed people. Then the nose is somehow very clumsy, very rough, which usually does not appear on intellectual faces, but rather indicates some kind of narrowness and limitation of this person’s view. He has very cruel eyes, very unpleasant, cold eyes. And in general, the facial expression is somehow very stern. and somehow... and cruel. In general, of course, it is difficult to say anything good about this person. Thanks a lot. Please sit in the first row. Over there, to that girl. Next, test subject, please. I ask you to. Stand here. Please take a look at this photo. Before you is a portrait of a very great scientist. Comrade Mishaevtin, your task is to look at this photograph and give a psychological portrait of this person. Of course, my opinion is purely subjective, and, in principle, it is quite difficult to say anything from the photograph. But in this case we can say that this person is Quite smart. He has an intense gaze. The look is piercing. Literally just like x-rays. The man is obviously still very active. And at the same time soft, good-natured. In general, you can rely on him. Well... In general, obviously, this is still a good person. Thanks a lot. Sit in the first row. Well, absorbed in work, I would say. Passionate in general, probably. Now he’s serious, but probably with a little humor. Serious with humor. Does he have a nice face? Face? Well, that's nice. Nice face. Is he a kind person? Yes, probably good. Must love children. Must love children. Very good.
Speaker C: I think that... When he talks to others, others like him, well, he can win people over.
Speaker B: Portrait of a criminal.
Speaker C: This is evidenced by his eyes, so impudently narrowed.
Speaker B: It seems to me that even when he talks about something good, he still has the impression that there is something bad in his soul. Portrait of a scientist. His gaze reflects a lot of mental work. He works very hard on himself.
Speaker C: His forehead is Socratic, high.
Speaker B: Is he a thief or a sadist?
Speaker C: Look. Well, kind of inhuman. Inhumane look. It looks like he's even a sadist. He probably drinks a lot. Everything follows from here.
Speaker B: Famous scientist. His eyes are narrowed kindly. Kind squint, huh? Yes.
Speaker A: In uncertain situations, with a lack of information, we unwittingly find what other people expect from us. Depending on the setting, on the words of the experimenter, we discover traits and qualities that are usually attributed to criminals or scientists. We see what we want to see. A psychological attitude is an unconscious disposition, a readiness to perceive something in a certain way. And we think - this is my opinion. And if there are other people’s opinions nearby, a conflict situation arises. How do we solve it? How do we proceed? Children. An excellent model for studying some psychological patterns.
Speaker B: Well, let's listen. Do you hear, Serochka? Yes. He will check how you understood and remembered everything. Oleg, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Both are white. Andryusha, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Olenka, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Indeed, both are white. And when I put up two pyramids, white and black, what do you say? Both are white. And you? Both are white. You? Both are white. Great, remember everything. This means we can conduct an experiment with you. Yes? Volochka, come to us. Come, come here. Sit down here. Olezhka, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Andryushenka? Both are white. Olenka? Both are white. Volochka, look at the color of the pyramids? She's black, she's white. Well done! Black and white. Smart girl, baby! Black and grey. No, it's black. Black and white. Well done, Roma!
Speaker A: Many of our actions are objectively explained by suggestion. Although we don't notice it.
Speaker B: Both are white. Olenka, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Tell me, baby, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Well done, guys. Olezhka, look carefully. What color are the pyramids? Both are white. Andryushenka, look. What color are the pyramids? Both are white. Olenka, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Helen, what color are the pyramids? Both are white. Both are white. Both are white. Please move the little black one towards you. Why did you say she was white? Why baby? Don't know.
Speaker C: Don't know?
Speaker B: This one is white, and this other one is black. And you said they were both white. Why did you say that? Because... They also said it correctly. The children said. And you repeated after them, right? Why did you repeat after them when you know that this one is white and that one is black? I wanted. What did you want? Repeat. Why? Because they said so. Let's continue the experiment. Porridge. Sugar. Salt.
Speaker A: Let's offer this porridge to the children.
Speaker B: Taisiya Ivanovna, please. Well, what will they give us here now? What a wonderful porridge dish. Now you must taste the porridge and tell whether it is well cooked. Is the porridge sweet? Yes. We'll give it to Tanya first. Tanya will try it and tell you what kind of porridge she has. Sweet. Come on. And Valik will try the porridge. What kind of porridge? Porridge Vo. Porridge Vo. So, what will Vova tell us? What kind of porridge does he have? Sweet. Sweet porridge. So, come on, Vika. What kind of porridge? Sweet. Sweet.
Speaker A: So, sweet for everyone, salty for last.
Speaker B: Try it hard first. What kind of porridge do you have? Salty.
Speaker A: This behavior is called independent. Striving for independence, focusing on one’s own impressions. It seems natural to us. But when the opinions of others turn out to be much more important than personal feelings, when they voluntarily give up their own opinions, such behavior is called inspired. Sometimes conformal. Attention! Salty porridge.
Speaker B: Alena will try the porridge and tell us what kind of porridge it is. Try the porridge properly. Properly. Do you like porridge? Sweet porridge? Would you like some more porridge? Why? Because it's salty? Why did you say she was sweet? Sweet. Sweet porridge. Roller will try it now and tell us what kind of porridge he has. Sweet. Sweet porridge? Seryozha. Come on, Seryozha. Sweet. Now the little thing remains. What kind of porridge, my dear? Sweet. Come on, come on, Mila, try it. What kind of porridge? Would you like to try some more porridge? So, sweetie? Honey, what kind of porridge? Sweet. Very sweet. Would you like some more porridge?
Speaker A: Yes, the opinions of others are very important to all of us.
Speaker B: Would you like some more of this porridge? And why? You are an amazing child, honey.
Speaker A: And let's not blame our kids for agreeing. Being like everyone else is very necessary for a child. Indeed, in childhood, primarily through play and imitation, the active process of becoming a person takes place. The process of assimilating the norms and rules of developed societies. The process of child socialization. Be like everyone else.
Speaker B: Guys, you and I need to agree on where the subject will sit. He should sit on this last chair. His last word. Therefore, when you enter, try to quickly take all the other seats. I see, right? Next, you should speak more emotionally, more convincingly, and not for as long as we sometimes did. It's clear? And one last thing. In the first presentation you should say that the first and fourth portraits are portraits of the same person. First and fourth.
Speaker C: Not alike. This is unrealistic. There is such a difference in age. The first and fourth are completely different people. Beards are different. It's unreal what they cost. First of all, they both have completely different faces. Nose shape, ear shape. The pins are on the corner, it seems to me that it would have been through the fourth and fifth.
Speaker B: Guys, our task... I understand you. Everything is fine. You think that the first and fourth are not very similar, right?
Speaker C: Yes, they are not similar at all.
Speaker B: Very good, Yuri. Our task is to take people who are not very similar or very different, as you say, and still find common features in them and convince our subject that they are similar. And we will see from the result whether we have enough power in our words to convince the subject. Let's try.
Speaker C: Well, it's all complicated.
Speaker B: Well, it’s difficult, but you’ll try. Agreed?
Speaker C: It's not an attempt.
Speaker B: Please look at these five photographs and tell me if any of them are portraits of the same person or if they are five photographs of five different people. All portraits are different. Are you convinced there are five different people here? Yes. Are you sure about this? Yes. Please look at these five photographs. Take a close look. And tell me, is there a portrait of the same person among these portraits? Or are these five photographs of different people? Take a close look. Let's start with you. Please.
Speaker C: It seems to me that the first and fourth photos are the same person. And... It seems to me that a lot says that this is the same person. And what’s typical is this mole in the fourth photo, on the right cheek, and it’s also visible in the first photo, only here it’s right on the border of light and shadow, it’s a little blurry, but still, if you look closely, it’s visible . Their nasolabial fold is very characteristic, completely identical. Well, in general it’s like this. The type of face is very... Well, literally the same.
Speaker B: The same eye shape. And especially characteristic are wrinkles and bags under the eyes. Identical eyebrows.
Speaker C: These people's ears are similar. Although in the first photo the hat is pulled down.
Speaker A: It seems to me that in order to hide... The majority expresses a single opinion. And this opinion weighs heavily.
Speaker C: You can see a gap in your teeth. Well, it’s not just one like that, there’s no tooth, and that’s it. And it’s clear that the person was holding something wide, you see, there’s such a slit. This is due to the characteristic way of holding the tube. The tube is closed in the mouth like this.
Speaker B: Oh my God! I believe that everyone here is different. Firstly, the shape of the ears is not identical in the first and fourth photographs. In the fourth photo you can clearly see a depression and a wrinkle at the bottom of the ear. She's not in the first photo. And the ear in the first photo is shorter. Then the shape of the nose, in my opinion, is different. In any case, the fourth photo clearly shows the thickened lower end of the nose. In the first photo the nose is clearly snub. Even with the aging of a person, in my opinion, he could not dry out. It’s just that there the nose was very exposed to sunlight.
Speaker A: The group is under increasing psychological pressure.
Speaker C: In the first photo there is such a fold going down from the ear. Agree?
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker C: So, in the fourth photo you can see it perfectly. It's the big jaw on the left side. Do you see how the jaw protrudes into the leg? And the jaw is the same. And now look at the fourth photo. There's this gap in the teeth. Look, it has such a wide stripe at the bottom. Characteristic of holding the tube for a long time.
Speaker B: In the first photo, this old man is clearly holding the phone on the left side.
Speaker C: So this is shifted here. But she always stays in the center.
Speaker B: The bottom of the ear is clearly shorter.
Speaker C: Here it’s just shot closer, the mirror, the face is bigger, so it seems like the ear is shorter. Here the intersection is created so that it is small but high. But here, on the contrary, it is created so that it is wide. There are even books about these effects. They can be completely different. Even a person, if he wears stripes or a suit, for example, he seems taller. And then I counted the number of wrinkles during this time. So it exactly matches the number of wrinkles in the first photo. And again they show this lower part, especially in the fourth picture, showing that there is no second double chin here.
Speaker B: But don't you think the wart in the first photo is a little lower than in the fourth? These, in my opinion, are bags due to the heaviness of the skin.
Speaker C: Where, right here, or what? Yes. No, it’s just not very clearly visible that they... No, a little bit not, that’s right, so when the bags appeared... Have you been convinced, guys?
Speaker B: This is a portrait of the same person in the first and fourth photographs. No, these are portraits of different people. Thanks guys. When the first person said that they were the same, I was simply surprised. And I expected the second person to say that they were different. When the second one said that they were the same, I had some hesitation. Doubts. Doubts, yes. Well, when all six said that they were the same, doubts, of course, increased. But still, I generally draw a little. I looked carefully and it seemed to me that they were different. Was it difficult for you to say that the first four are different? Difficult. Difficult. Was there a struggle inside? Yes. Look at these photographs and tell me, is there a portrait of the same person among them? Or are these five photographs of five different people?
Speaker C: These are photographs of five different people.
Speaker B: Are you sure about this?
Speaker C: Yes.
Speaker B: Are any of these five portraits portraits of the same person? Please, you.
Speaker C: If you look closely at these photographs, it seems to me that the second and fourth portraits have the most common features characteristic of each face.
Speaker B: Grandparents?
Speaker C: And it seems to me that the second portrait is a Georgian in disguise. If you shave him carefully, put on a scarf, and comb his hair neatly, it will turn out pretty good. Perhaps they have very similar wrinkles near the eyes, completely identical. Here, of course, there is a noticeable difference in the time of shooting, the narrow bridge of the nose, such a fleshy nose, folds near the lips. And that means that the wrinkles radiating from the eyes, they are not only their shape and direction, but even the number, I calculated for myself like this, is the same.
Speaker B: This can be seen from the fact that they have the same chin, so strong-willed.
Speaker C: And the forehead is also very similar. And here look at the second photo of the left eye. So, he has this here, like, well... Fold. No, not a fold, but like... Well, like a mole, yes. And here in the fourth photo it’s the same thing in the corner, on the left eye. Well, it’s true that in the second photo the eyes are slightly narrowed, but still the shape of the eyes remains the same, the size of the eyes is the same. And first, in the fourth photo you can see a large ear. And in the second photo you can also see a large ear under the braid. I thought it was the same person, and a man at that. And perhaps that’s why in the fourth photo, when they probably said that we would later photograph you as a woman, he smiles so much. Here the difference is that in the fourth photo the person is smiling, but in the second he was already trying to make a serious face. Well, if the previous speaking comrade said that he remained unconvinced, then when I said that all people here are different, I probably changed my opinion, because I really didn’t take into account the difference in shooting time. So I think it's really the same person taking the photo.
Speaker B: Thank you. Look at the pyramids. What color are the pyramids please?
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: You please.
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: You please.
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: You.
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: You.
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: You.
Speaker C: Black and white.
Speaker B: Really? Are you convinced of this?
Speaker C: Yes.
Speaker B: Please look at the portraits. Second and fourth portraits. Grandmother and grandfather. Do you think this is a portrait of the same person?
Speaker C: Yes.
Speaker B: Is that your opinion?
Speaker C: Yes, that's my opinion.
Speaker B: Please look at the first and fourth. Doesn’t it bother you that in the first portrait there is a snub-nosed man with a round face, and in the second there is a different type of face and a different nose structure? Do you also think that this is a portrait of the same person?
Speaker C: Probably not.
Speaker B: How can that be? The first time you said that these people are not alike was when we were talking separately. Then, why did you follow the guys’ lead?
Speaker C: I just couldn’t... probably come up with my own objections.
Speaker B: Were there not enough arguments?
Speaker C: Probably.
Speaker B: Well, how about that? Snub nose and long nose. So, are you easy to persuade?
Speaker C: Probably.
Speaker B: Why don’t you say that both are white pyramids? Left and right are both white. Why don't you speak?
Speaker C: That's obvious.
Speaker B: Could you be persuaded that they were both white?
Speaker C: You can't persuade here.
Speaker B: Look what color the pyramids are? Your opinion?
Speaker C: Both are white. Both are white.
Speaker B: Both are white.
Speaker C: Both are white. Both are white. Both are white. Both are white. Both are white. Of course, both are white. White.
Speaker B: Both white? Yes. But seriously?
Speaker C: Both are white.
Speaker B: Convinced?
Speaker C: We are convinced.
Speaker B: Thank you very much. Guys, thank you.
Speaker C: I probably followed the lead of the group, because that’s how people are made. Do you understand? How is it built? If seven people say “yes,” it’s hard for the eighth person to say “no.” And, perhaps, in rare cases he still says “no”, because the person is of different ages. At nineteen years old, his character has not yet been formed. At thirty years old, already formed, he can somehow resist these seven.
Speaker B: You just said that it’s impossible not to tell the seventh, just like everyone else. But still, when there is inner conviction, and this inner conviction contradicts the opinion of everyone, there must be some kind of reaction.
Speaker C: I felt somehow embarrassed in front of my comrades that they are such tools, they can emphasize all this correctly. Here. Notice every little detail, somehow compare it, somehow connect it all. I can't do it because I don't see any comparisons, I don't see anything in common. And until the last moment, literally until the sixth person, until the sixth person speaking, I disagreed somewhere. I even laughed a little in my soul, how can they compare a woman and a man into one whole. Although it is clearly clear that these are different people. Here. Well, after all... It’s just like a rush. I feel kind of awkward here. In front of the group, right? Yes, both in front of the group, and in general in front of those who filmed. I said that these were the same people, and even took my mouth as an argument that they were the same person. And as an argument he took the old man’s mouth, which was not visible at all in photograph No. 4, because there was a beard. Well, then, of course, I thought it all through. It seems to me that this happened arbitrarily. However, maybe this somehow quickly threw up on me, because I considered it necessary to argue so as not to make a mistake in front of my comrades. But somewhere in my soul I disagreed with them, and therefore even my mood emphasized this.
Speaker B: Are you in a bad mood?
Speaker C: Yes, it got very bad, because I thought, either I’m just illiterate, or they’re just too literate.
Speaker B: Well, I guess.
Speaker C: As for the third case, I was already so affected by this whole situation, all these circumstances, that I just thought it was some kind of mathematical curiosity.
Speaker B: And what was your third case?
Speaker C: The third case is with a white and a black cube, when I literally emphasized three times that these are both white cubes.
Speaker B: Pyramids, both white pyramids.
Speaker C: Both are white pyramids. And only, that means, then somehow I’m still more or less an adult. Well, trusting my feelings and perceptions, I said that this is both a black and a white cube.
Speaker B: Is this a significant situation for you? I would not say. Not good?
Speaker C: Not really.
Speaker B: And in a significant situation, are you sure to be principled?
Speaker C: I will only leave my opinion.
Speaker B: Are you sure about that?
Speaker C: I'm sure of that.
Speaker A: Of course, only one in a thousand will say black. But the pressure of the group is not easy for any of us to bear. Especially if our decision does not change anything. If the subject of the conflict is not particularly important, it is insignificant, and if the situation is fundamental, if it affects a person’s belief.
Speaker B: Please tell me, in difficult situations, in situations when every child in the class has the opportunity to make a choice, he can play, so to speak, in an experiment in his own favor, and in the favor of the class. How will the guys in your class lead? How will they behave in this situation, right? In this situation. I'll explain it to you now. Imagine a shooting gallery. Allochka, have you ever been to a shooting range? Well, look at what kind of shooting range we have. There are two targets in the shooting range. Left target and right target. If you shoot at the left target, then this machine gun will throw out a metal ruble, which you will take for yourself and spend it as you want. If at the right target, then this counter will throw the ruble here. And this money will go towards general cool things. Now I'll leave and the bell will ring. In the bell pose, the scoreboard will light up. On the left target and on the right target. And you will see how many guys from your class shot to the left, and how many guys from your class shot to the right. Previous ones? Yes, those who were before him. In fact, we control this scoreboard, and not at all the guys who passed in front of it. And we make it so that on the left target, on the target that is for ourselves, 16 or 17 lights light up, and on the right two. Or three. This means that every student in your class finds himself in a conflict situation. His guys, his class, his comrades supposedly all shoot at the left target. It was 16-17 guys who took the shot in their favor. Supposedly they are shooting in their own favor. And on the right board there will be only two lights on. For the benefit of the class. For the benefit of the class. And, of course, this situation will act as a conflict for everyone, because it is still unexpected, probably. And yet everyone probably thinks that their class is more united. And so we will see how these left lights can bring down, so to speak, the stability of the guys in your class or not. Yes, it is interesting. Aren't you scared for your guys? It's scary. Aren't you afraid that we will shake, so to speak, their resilience? Or collectivist orientation? You know, at this age, it seems to me that it is very easy to shake such resilience. Are you interested in knowing how things really are? Very interesting. This will help me in my work. I'll leave now, and after the signal you will work. Fine? To be continued... PHONE RING RING I want to congratulate you. Despite our experimental tricks, your class passed the test, and most of the guys turned out to be collectivists. Therefore, we can probably be happy for the younger teenagers, because in conditions where they are given a special instruction to act against the team, 80% pass the test and step over our instructions. You should probably be satisfied with such a harsh experiment.
Speaker A: Most of the guys put the interests of the class above personal ones. The entire structure of our life cultivates moral fortitude in a person. Persistence of views and ideals. Raises a collectivist. This film invited you to look at yourself from the outside. And seeing your reflection, seeing yourself in others, you may think about it. And your next step, your action, will be more thoughtful, more conscious, more principled.
Speaker B: Subtitle editor A. Sinetskaya Proofreader A. Egorova.
